 srl-1 - galeras volcano 
 galeras volcano 
this radar image of the area surrounding the galeras volcano in 
southern colombia shows the ability of a multi-frequency radar to 
map volcanic structures that can be dangerous to study on the 
ground.  galeras has erupted more than 20 times since the area 
was first visited by european explorers in the 1500s.  volcanic 
activity levels have been high in the last five years, including 
an eruption in january 1993 that killed nine people on a 
scientific expedition to the volcano summit.  galeras is the 
light green area near the center of the image.  the active cone, 
with a small summit pit, is the red feature nestled against the 
lower right edge of the caldera (crater) wall.  the city of 
pasto, with a population of 300,000, is shown in orange near the 
bottom of the image, just 8 kilometers (5 miles) from the 
volcano.  the image was acquired by the spaceborne imaging 
radar-c/x-band synthetic aperture radar (sir-c/ x-sar) aboard the 
space shuttle endeavour on its 96th orbit on april 15, 1994.  
north is toward the upper right. the area shown is 49.1 by 36.0 
kilometers (30.5 by 22.3 miles), centered at 1.2 degrees north 
latitude and 77.4 degrees west longitude.  the radar illumination 
is from the top of the image.  the false colors in this image 
were created using the following radar channels:  red represents 
the l-band (horizontally transmitted and received); green 
represents the l-band (horizontally transmitted, vertically 
received); blue represents the c-band (horizontally transmitted, 
vertically received).  galeras is one of 15 volcanoes worldwide 
that are being monitored by the scientific community as an 
"international decade volcano" because of the hazard that it 
represents to the local population.
p-45441 march 30, 1995
 <img src="../../../../gif/icons/back-yellow.gif"
align=bottom>      imaging radar home page
 updated 03/30/95 
 bruce.chapman@jpl.nasa.gov 
